---
layout: wmt/project
title: About OneOps <br> Cloud Application Lifecycle Management
---

OneOps is a cloud management and application lifecycle management platform that
developers use to both develop and launch new products faster, and to more
easily maintain them throughout their entire lifecycle. OneOps enables
developers to code their products in a hybrid, multi-cloud environment.

This means developers can switch between different cloud providers to take
advantage of better pricing, technology or scalability – without being locked
into one cloud provider.


## Mission

Our mission is to give our customers the most agile, cost-effective, flexible
application lifecycle management solution for enterprise class workloads in the
cloud.

## History

OneOps was founded in the spring of 2011 by three industry veterans experienced
in running some of the largest web environments. It is through this experience
that they re-invented how applications should be provisioned and managed in the
cloud computing era. OneOps was acquired by __@WalmartLabs__ in May 2013 to
accelerate the adoption of cloud in the context of the Global eCommerce
division’s Pangaea initiative. __OneOps__ manages several eCommerce properties
within the <strong>Walmart</strong> portfolio including walmart.com, and Sam’s
Club. In January 2016, __@WalmartLabs__ released OneOps as open source software
project under the Apache 2.0 license.

## Contact Us

We are seeking to build a robust community around this product. If you are a
cloud provider, infrastructure hardware vendor, software vendor, represent an
open source product or are a consultancy, we’d enjoy hearing from you. Please
reach out to us via <a href="mailto:partner@oneops.com"> partner@oneops.com
</a>.

If you’re interested in using OneOps within your company, we’ll be around to
help you get going on <a href="{{ site.slack_url }}">OneOps Slack</a> (<a
href="mailto:slack@oneops.com">request an invite</a> or <a href="{{
site.slack_register }}" target="_blank">sign up yourself</a>) .
