---
layout: wmt/project
title: Benefits
---

OneOps shortens time to market and fosters a true devops culture.

## Business Benefits

__Application Lifecycle Management__ (__ALM__) products seek to alleviate the friction between business,
technology and operations groups in organizations entering the Digital Economy and adopting cloud
computing. __OneOps__ redefines __PaaS 2.0__ capabilities by being the most comprehensive open-source ALM product
available, backed by __@WalmartLabs__.

OneOps is an application lifecycle management platform that developers can use to develop and launch new products
faster, forklift legacy applications to the cloud easily and maintain them throughout their entire lifecycle with
advanced auto-healing and auto-scaling capabilities. OneOps enables developers to code their products once and run
them in a hybrid, multi-cloud environment. This means they can test and switch between different cloud providers
to take advantage of better pricing, technology and scalability – without being locked into one cloud provider.

__OneOps enables rapid innovation with no barriers__ meaning developers can quickly spin up infrastructure in a
matter of minutes, in public or private clouds, enabling nearly instantaneous time to market. That’s business
agility!

__OneOps provides continuous lifecycle management__ — Once a developer launches their application through OneOps,
it can run that app on “auto-pilot.” OneOps automatically scales, heals/repairs and even replaces infrastructure
when needed if unforeseen things go awry in the cloud.

__OneOps delivers cloud portability__ enabling developers to move applications, databases or even entire
environments freely from one cloud or provider to another. Developers are able to “cloud shop” and take advantage
of better technology, capacity, scalability, security, customer service or lower costs on demand.

__OneOps delivers control of cloud environments back to the developers and IT operations teams__. Instead of cloud
providers dictating what proprietary tools and technologies have to be used, suffering with expensive vendor
integrations, or cobbling together multiple solutions, OneOps is the one-stop shop to bring the application’s
requirements to the cloud.


## Developer Benefits

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cloud"></i> One design – Any Cloud</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Works out of the box with multiple public and private cloud infrastructure providers and technologies like OpenStack.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-globe"></i> One design – All Environments</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps enables repeatable deployments across all environments. Multiple test environments? A-B testing? Spinning up additional production clusters? Easy!</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cloud"></i> Cloud Technology Agnostic</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Future-proof your automation and play nice with infrastructure! Works with bare metal, virtualized, and containerized infrastructure.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-arrows"></i> Manage Deployments</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Flexible deployment approaches with cancellation capabilities for when you need to roll back. Phase by percent, by cloud. Do some instances in parallel, some sequentially.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-dashboard"></i> High Availability</h2>
    </div>
    <p>So long as you have load balancing services defined for your cloud, creating High Availability environments is as simple as setting how many instances should be in the cluster.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-book"></i> Design Catalog</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Create and share designs between teams or with others in the open source community using the Design Catalog.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-medkit"></i> Auto-healing</h2>
    </div>
    <p>If a monitor indicates a problem, healing operations are triggered targeting the specific deployed software platform.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-refresh"></i> Auto-replace</h2>
    </div>
    <p>When auto-healing isn’t enough, since OneOps is the system of record for the configuration, it simply discards the old instance and creates a new one.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-life-ring"></i> Many supported products</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps comes out of the box supporting a long list of ISV products.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-line-chart"></i> Auto-scaling</h2>
    </div>
    <p>When a monitor indicates a resource is being over- or under- utilized, OneOps will adjust the size of the cluster automatically, keeping costs optimized.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-desktop"></i> Application Programming Interface</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Every feature in the web interface is backed by a RESTful service.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-heartbeat"></i> Monitoring</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Each integrated ISV product retains instrumentation enabling continuous tracking of metrics against thresholds. Auto-trigger healing, replacement, scaling, or escalation events.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-bookmark"></i> Best practices are the default</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps keeps it safe by coming with best practices automation and configuration settings out of the box.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-bar-chart"></i> OneOps was Built to Scale</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Backed by @WalmartLabs, you can trust that OneOps will manage your workload up to whatever size infrastructure your product requires.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-refresh"></i> Continuous Delivery</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps integrates with Maven/Jenkins to provide your team’s software development lifecycle (SDLC) with Continuous Delivery capabilities.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cog"></i> Environment Profiles</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Do you configure your production environments with High Availability and Disaster Recovery as defaults? Are your staging environments always in the same cloud? Use profiles to so configure new environments with one click.</p>
  </div>
</div>


## IT Operations Benefits

__Greater control of cloud environment__ means that instead of cloud providers dictating what proprietary tools
and technologies we have to use, or how much bandwidth we can have, OneOps puts the control back into the hands of
developers.

__Cloud portability__ enables users to move applications, databases or even entire cloud environments freely from
one cloud provider to another. Users are able to “cloud shop” and take advantage of better technology, capacity,
scalability, security, customer service or lower costs.

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-heartbeat"></i> Monitoring</h2>
    </div>
    <p>All automated software is setup to feed critical metrics to the
    <strong>OneOps</strong> monitoring sub-system. Best practices metric
    thresholds determine when it’s time to heal, replace, scale, or notify
    a human to step in.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-warning"></i> Alerting</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps has an extensible alerting framework. Configure deployment
    notifications so the operations center can see what’s changing, or send
    an email or SMS when a monitor crosses a critical threshold.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-user-plus"></i> LDAP/AD Identity integration</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Configure OneOps to use your corporate LDAP/AD service to make new
    developer on-boarding trivial.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cogs"></i> Configuration Management System</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps is the system of record for all aspects of deployed applications
    system, environment and cloud infrastructure configuration. Gain visibility into cloud utilization,
    and should a data center disappear, re-create your environments in minutes.</p>
  </div>
</div>  

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-shield"></i> Naturally Compliance-Ready</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps has the necessary features, such as role-based authorization, for
    managing PCI workloads within compliant infrastructure.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cloud"></i> Cross-Cloud Showback</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Understanding cloud usage and cost is a daunting problem the more complex
    cloud-specific cost models are in play. OneOps delivers great insights by estimating the cost
    of utilized cloud resources across heterogeneous cost models/clouds by dimensions such as org,
    team, product, provider, software type, etc.</p>
  </div>
</div>  

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cloud"></i> Cross-Cloud Quota</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Budgets are impossible to manage in a hybrid cloud architecture without controls
    existing at the next higher level in the stack. OneOps is that layer and will soon use
    show data to ensure cloud costs are not just visible, but manageable.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cog"></i> Configuration Policy Governance</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Proactively avoid cloud technical debt! As your company's cloud workload configuration management system,
    OneOps helps you easily govern all application design, software configuration, environments, clouds, and
    resource utilization settings.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cloud"></i> Custom-Defined Clouds</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Mix and match technologies to define your own cloud. Leverage fully IaaS
    compliant infrastructure, or mix in some enterprise hardware. As long as
    there’s a way to programmatically manage the device, OneOps can automate it!</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cloud-upload"></i> Cloud Migration Made Easy</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps is a pure automation solution and remains outside of the application’s codebase. Applications
    needn't know they're being managed by OneOps, so moving legacy or proprietary applications to the cloud
    is easy.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-file-text-o"></i> Extensive Cloud Usage Reporting</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Leveraging the ELK stack, it’s possible to visualize many aspects of your
    company’s cloud operations.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-refresh"></i> OneOps managing OneOps</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps contains a design for itself that allows an administrator to easily
    grow and manage the OneOps infrastructure up to extreme scale, simply and
    easily the same way your DevOps teams will manage theirs.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-cogs"></i> Automation Technology Agnostic</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps application lifecycle management operates on top of lower level
    automation that can be implemented in any of the popular frameworks
    such as Chef, Puppet or Ansible.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-desktop"></i> SaaS-Ready at Birth</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps was designed from the ground up as a SaaS product. You can run it as a publicly available
    product, or setup departments as independent organizations with their own cloud definitions, policies,
    and isolated workspaces.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-line-chart"></i> Designed – and Proven – to Scale</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Backed by @WalmartLabs, you can trust that OneOps can scale to handle the
    largest data centers, application clusters, and do it with resiliency
    and availability.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-unlock-alt"></i> Commitment to Open Source</h2>
    </div>
    <p>Very soon, all @WalmartLabs development will be done in our GitHub repositories and released regularly.
    The only aspects of OneOps to remain proprietary will be integrations to proprietary components,
    products or systems and therefore of no value to the community. This small portion of the codebase
    will continue to shrink.</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="row">
  <div class="col-md-6">
    <div class="headline">
      <h2><i class="fa fa-lightbulb-o"></i> OneOps has a Bright Future</h2>
    </div>
    <p>OneOps is the way to the cloud at Walmart and is supported by @WalmartLabs.
    We are looking to build a vibrant community to help extend the core feature
    set, add support for more cloud providers, and automate lifecycle for more
    ISV products.</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-md-6">

  </div>
</div>
